# Proyek-DA-8-Descriptive-Analytics-Correlations-Of-European-Countries-2023.
### Looker Studio Dashboard: 
[Link](https://lookerstudio.google.com/u/0/reporting/578098e1-a123-4659-a5d3-59e8ec0fe21f/page/DPB9D).
### Tableau Public Dashboard: 
[Link](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/professional.umar/viz/Project5_ReportaseNegaraEropaIQPisaGDPStuntingPendapatanPerkapita2023_/Dahboard).
### Tools: 
Microsoft Excel (Data Cleaning), Looker Studio (Data Visualizations dan Data Interpretation).
### Dataset: 
[Link](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/alfinbahru/data-negara-eropa-eropa-2023).
### Description:
<p align="justify"> This dashboard contains information and descriptive analysis regarding 47 countries in the European continent. The assessment is conducted to determine the quality of life and welfare of a country using parameters such as GDP value, IQ score, PISA score, income per capita, and stunting percentage. A correlation can be observed between each of these scores. The IQ score measures the level of intelligence, although IQ is GENETIC; data shows that IQ also correlates with other factors such as income per capita and nutritional value, although the relationship is weak and debatable (Nature vs Nurture). The relationship in the graph appears to be exponentially declining. Small countries generally have high IQ and PISA scores and the lowest stunting percentage. Small countries also have low GDP values; however, the income per capita scores are the highest. Scandinavian countries like Norway, Sweden, Finland, Iceland, and Denmark, along with Western European countries like the Netherlands, Switzerland, Monaco, Luxembourg, and Liechtenstein, consistently rank highest in terms of PISA scores, IQ, and income per capita. These countries also have the lowest stunting scores, but their GDP is still behind the five dominant industrial countries in Europe, such as Germany, France, the UK, Italy, and Russia. The PISA score measures the level of education in a country, and the stunting percentage indicates the nutritional level of a country. The lower the stunting percentage, the more evenly distributed and fulfilled the nutrition within the country. GDP correlates linearly and directly with income per capita; the higher the GDP of a country, the higher the income per capita, except in countries with small populations and small areas. </p>
